README.md, before:

# Cloud Pricing API

<a href="https://www.infracost.io/community-chat"><img alt="Community Slack channel" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-Slack-%234a154b"/></a> <a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/infracost/infracost/tags"><img alt="Docker Image" src="https://img.shields.io/docker/cloud/build/infracost/infracost"/></a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Open%20source%20GraphQL%20API%20for%20cloud%20pricing.%20Contains%20over%203M%20public%20prices%20from%20AWS%2C%20Azure%20and%20GCP!&url=https://github.com/infracost/cloud-pricing-api&hashtags=cloud,price,aws,azure,gcp"><img alt="Tweet" src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/http/shields.io.svg?style=social"/></a>

The Cloud Pricing API is a GraphQL-based API that includes all public prices from AWS, Azure and Google. The prices are updated via a weekly job. This API is used by the [Infracost CLI](https://github.com/infracost/infracost) but you can also use it independently.

## Example usage

Infracost runs a hosted version of this API that you can use if you prefer that:
1. Register for an API key by [downloading infracost](https://www.infracost.io/docs/#quick-start) and run `infracost register`.
2. If you'd like to use the API independently, pass the above API key using the `X-Api-Key: xxxx` HTTP header when calling [https://pricing.api.infracost.io/graphql](https://pricing.api.infracost.io/graphql). The following example `curl` fetches the latest price for an AWS EC2 m3.large instance in us-east-1. More examples can be found in `./examples/queries`.

    **Example request**:
    ```sh
    curl https://pricing.api.infracost.io/graphql \
      -X POST \
      -H 'X-Api-Key: YOUR_API_KEY_HERE' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data '
      {"query": "{ products(filter: {vendorName: \"aws\", service: \"AmazonEC2\", region: \"us-east-1\", attributeFilters: [{key: \"instanceType\", value: \"m3.large\"}, {key: \"operatingSystem\", value: \"Linux\"}, {key: \"tenancy\", value: \"Shared\"}, {key: \"capacitystatus\", value: \"Used\"}, {key: \"preInstalledSw\", value: \"NA\"}]}) { prices(filter: {purchaseOption: \"on_demand\"}) { USD } } } "}
      '
    ```

    **Example response**:
    ```sh
    {"data":{"products":[{"prices":[{"USD":"0.1330000000"}]}]}}
    ```
    
    The [GraphQL Playground](https://pricing.api.infracost.io/graphql) can also be used with something like the [modheader](https://bewisse.com/modheader/) browser extension so you can set the custom HTTP header `X-Api-Key` to your Infracost API key.

## Deployment

![Deployment overview](.github/assets/deployment_overview.png "Deployment overview")

It should take around 15 mins to deploy the Cloud Pricing API. Two deployment methods are supported:
1. If you have a Kubernetes cluster, we recommend using [our Helm Chart](https://github.com/infracost/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/cloud-pricing-api).
2. If you prefer to deploy in a VM, we recommend using Docker compose.

Either way, you can run the PostgreSQL DB on a single container/pod if your high-availability requirements allow for a few second downtime on container/pod restarts. No critical data is stored in the DB and the DB can be quickly recreated in the unlikely event of data corruption issues. Managed databases, such as a small AWS RDS or Azure Database for PostgreSQL, can also be used (pg version >= 13).

The pricing DB dump is downloaded from Infracost's API as that simplifies the task of keeping prices up-to-date. We have created one job that you can run once a week to download the latest prices. This provides you with:
1. **Fast updates**: our aim is to enable you to deploy this service in less than 15mins. Some cloud vendors paginates API calls to 100 resources at a time, and making too many requests result in errors; fetching prices directly from them takes more than an hour.
2. **Complete updates**: We run [integration tests](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/actions) to ensure that the CLI is using the correct prices. In the past, there have been cases when cloud providers have tweaked their pricing API data that caused direct downloads to fail. With this method, we check the pricing data passes our integration tests before publishing them, and everyone automatically gets the entire up-to-date data. The aim is reduce the risk of failed or partial updates.

### Helm chart

See [our Helm Chart](https://github.com/infracost/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/cloud-pricing-api) for details.

### Docker compose

1. Clone the repo:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/infracost/cloud-pricing-api.git
    cd cloud-pricing-api
    ```

2. Use the [Infracost CLI](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/blob/master/README.md#quick-start) to get an API key so your self-hosted Cloud Pricing API can download the latest pricing data from us:

    ```sh
    infracost register
    ```
    The key is saved in `~/.config/infracost/credentials.yml`.

3. Generate a 32 character API token that your Infracost CLI users will use to authenticate when calling your self-hosted Cloud Pricing API. If you ever need to rotate the API key, you can simply update this environment variable and restart the application.

    ```sh
    export SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY=$(cat /dev/urandom | env LC_CTYPE=C tr -dc 'a-zA-Z0-9' | fold -w 32 | head -n 1)
    echo "SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY=$SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY"
    ```

4. Add a `.env` file with the following content:

    ```sh
    # The Infracost API from Step 2, used to download pricing data from us.
    INFRACOST_API_KEY=<API Key from Step 2>

    # The API key you generated in step 3, used to authenticate Infracost CLI users with your self-hosted Cloud Pricing API.
    SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY=<API Key from Step 3>
    ```

5. Run `docker-compose up`. This will create three containers: PostgreSQL DB, Cloud Pricing API, and an init container that loads the pricing data. The init container will take a few minutes and exit after the Docker compose logs show `init_job_1: Completed: downloading DB data`.

6. Configure the Infracost CLI to use your self-hosted Cloud Pricing API:

    ```sh
    export INFRACOST_PRICING_API_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:4000
    export INFRACOST_API_KEY=$SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY
    
    infracost breakdown --path /path/to/code
    ```

    You can also access the GraphQL Playground at [http://localhost:4000/graphql](http://localhost:4000/graphql) using something like the [modheader](https://bewisse.com/modheader/) browser extension so you can set the custom HTTP header `X-Api-Key` to your `SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY`.

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome! For development details, see the [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide. For major changes, including interface changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change. [Join our community Slack channel](https://www.infracost.io/community-chat), we are a friendly bunch and happy to help you get started :)

We're also looking for [Sr Full Stack Engineer](https://www.infracost.io/join-the-team) to join our team.

## License

[Apache License 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/)

Commit message:

docs: add cron job details for docker-compose

README.md, after:

# Cloud Pricing API

<a href="https://www.infracost.io/community-chat"><img alt="Community Slack channel" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-Slack-%234a154b"/></a> <a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/infracost/infracost/tags"><img alt="Docker Image" src="https://img.shields.io/docker/cloud/build/infracost/infracost"/></a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Open%20source%20GraphQL%20API%20for%20cloud%20pricing.%20Contains%20over%203M%20public%20prices%20from%20AWS%2C%20Azure%20and%20GCP!&url=https://github.com/infracost/cloud-pricing-api&hashtags=cloud,price,aws,azure,gcp"><img alt="Tweet" src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/http/shields.io.svg?style=social"/></a>

The Cloud Pricing API is a GraphQL-based API that includes all public prices from AWS, Azure and Google. The prices are updated via a weekly job. This API is used by the [Infracost CLI](https://github.com/infracost/infracost) but you can also use it independently.

## Example usage

Infracost runs a hosted version of this API that you can use if you prefer that:
1. Register for an API key by [downloading infracost](https://www.infracost.io/docs/#quick-start) and run `infracost register`.
2. If you'd like to use the API independently, pass the above API key using the `X-Api-Key: xxxx` HTTP header when calling [https://pricing.api.infracost.io/graphql](https://pricing.api.infracost.io/graphql). The following example `curl` fetches the latest price for an AWS EC2 m3.large instance in us-east-1. More examples can be found in `./examples/queries`.

    **Example request**:
    ```sh
    curl https://pricing.api.infracost.io/graphql \
      -X POST \
      -H 'X-Api-Key: YOUR_API_KEY_HERE' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data '
      {"query": "{ products(filter: {vendorName: \"aws\", service: \"AmazonEC2\", region: \"us-east-1\", attributeFilters: [{key: \"instanceType\", value: \"m3.large\"}, {key: \"operatingSystem\", value: \"Linux\"}, {key: \"tenancy\", value: \"Shared\"}, {key: \"capacitystatus\", value: \"Used\"}, {key: \"preInstalledSw\", value: \"NA\"}]}) { prices(filter: {purchaseOption: \"on_demand\"}) { USD } } } "}
      '
    ```

    **Example response**:
    ```sh
    {"data":{"products":[{"prices":[{"USD":"0.1330000000"}]}]}}
    ```
    
    The [GraphQL Playground](https://pricing.api.infracost.io/graphql) can also be used with something like the [modheader](https://bewisse.com/modheader/) browser extension so you can set the custom HTTP header `X-Api-Key` to your Infracost API key.

## Deployment

![Deployment overview](.github/assets/deployment_overview.png "Deployment overview")

It should take around 15 mins to deploy the Cloud Pricing API. Two deployment methods are supported:
1. If you have a Kubernetes cluster, we recommend using [our Helm Chart](https://github.com/infracost/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/cloud-pricing-api).
2. If you prefer to deploy in a VM, we recommend using Docker compose.

Either way, you can run the PostgreSQL DB on a single container/pod if your high-availability requirements allow for a few second downtime on container/pod restarts. No critical data is stored in the DB and the DB can be quickly recreated in the unlikely event of data corruption issues. Managed databases, such as a small AWS RDS or Azure Database for PostgreSQL, can also be used (pg version >= 13).

The pricing DB dump is downloaded from Infracost's API as that simplifies the task of keeping prices up-to-date. We have created one job that you can run once a week to download the latest prices. This provides you with:
1. **Fast updates**: our aim is to enable you to deploy this service in less than 15mins. Some cloud vendors paginates API calls to 100 resources at a time, and making too many requests result in errors; fetching prices directly from them takes more than an hour.
2. **Complete updates**: We run [integration tests](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/actions) to ensure that the CLI is using the correct prices. In the past, there have been cases when cloud providers have tweaked their pricing API data that caused direct downloads to fail. With this method, we check the pricing data passes our integration tests before publishing them, and everyone automatically gets the entire up-to-date data. The aim is reduce the risk of failed or partial updates.

### Helm chart

See [our Helm Chart](https://github.com/infracost/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/cloud-pricing-api) for details.

### Docker compose

1. Clone the repo:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/infracost/cloud-pricing-api.git
    cd cloud-pricing-api
    ```

2. Use the [Infracost CLI](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/blob/master/README.md#quick-start) to get an API key so your self-hosted Cloud Pricing API can download the latest pricing data from us:

    ```sh
    infracost register
    ```
    The key is saved in `~/.config/infracost/credentials.yml`.

3. Generate a 32 character API token that your Infracost CLI users will use to authenticate when calling your self-hosted Cloud Pricing API. If you ever need to rotate the API key, you can simply update this environment variable and restart the application.

    ```sh
    export SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY=$(cat /dev/urandom | env LC_CTYPE=C tr -dc 'a-zA-Z0-9' | fold -w 32 | head -n 1)
    echo "SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY=$SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY"
    ```

4. Add a `.env` file with the following content:

    ```sh
    # The Infracost API from Step 2, used to download pricing data from us.
    INFRACOST_API_KEY=<API Key from Step 2>

    # The API key you generated in step 3, used to authenticate Infracost CLI users with your self-hosted Cloud Pricing API.
    SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY=<API Key from Step 3>
    ```

5. Run `docker-compose up`. This will create three containers: PostgreSQL DB, Cloud Pricing API, and an init container that loads the pricing data. The init container will take a few minutes and exit after the Docker compose logs show `init_job_1: Completed: downloading DB data`.

6. Prices can be kept up-to-date by running the update job once a week, for example from cron:

    ```sh
    # Add a weekly cron job to update the pricing data. The cron entry should look something like:
    0 4 * * SUN docker-compose run --rm update_job npm run job:update >> /var/log/cron.log 2>&1
    ```

7. Configure the Infracost CLI to use your self-hosted Cloud Pricing API:

    ```sh
    export INFRACOST_PRICING_API_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:4000
    export INFRACOST_API_KEY=$SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY
    
    infracost breakdown --path /path/to/code
    ```

    You can also access the GraphQL Playground at [http://localhost:4000/graphql](http://localhost:4000/graphql) using something like the [modheader](https://bewisse.com/modheader/) browser extension so you can set the custom HTTP header `X-Api-Key` to your `SELF_HOSTED_INFRACOST_API_KEY`.

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome! For development details, see the [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) guide. For major changes, including interface changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change. [Join our community Slack channel](https://www.infracost.io/community-chat), we are a friendly bunch and happy to help you get started :)

We're also looking for [Sr Full Stack Engineer](https://www.infracost.io/join-the-team) to join our team.

## License

[Apache License 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/)
